All right, so let's look at some of
the out of the ordinary things with Java arrays.
We have reviewed a lot of ways
to manipulate arrays and data in arrays
in videos in this section of the course.
In this video, I want to cover a variety
of subjects on the array and its related objects.
First, arrays are fussy about their datatypes.
Although we can rely on Java to autobox to
and unbox from wrappers for us in many instances,
this is not true for arrays.
So, let's look at some examples.
So, I'm going to create a new class called "ArrayExtras"
in our arrays project.
(mouse clicking)
(keyboard clicking)
ArrayExtras.
Now this code simply goes over the few things
that we have looked at previously,
an int giving widen to a long
and an int being autoboxed to an Integer wrapper,
all of which Java handles for you.
And I've also added some code
to demonstrate using these features
in array initialization and setting elements in an array.
All right, so let's run the code.
(mouse clicking)
All right, so in terms of the results,
you can see that initially,
we've got two int variables, a and b there.
We can assign an int variable to a long,
which you're doing on line 16 and outputting it.
And further, we can do that in terms of arrays.
We can create a long array with some int elements,
which we're doing in the array initialization.
And in the long array,
we can assign an int directly to an array element.
I've done that in the case of a and b.
Probably technically, that should've been one
because we've got two elements there,
but either way that will actually work
and we know that we can do this.
Java autobox's Integers for us,
so we've got an Integer wrapper object there, aInteger.
The a is being autoboxed from an int to an Integer
and we're doing the same to bInteger.
Then we're just printing it out.
Then of course, I've got an Integer wrapper array,
which has been initialised on line 36
with ints zero, one, two, three, four
and we're just printing out the value there
using Arrays.toString.
In the following, our code you can mix and match
Integer and int here as you can see.
So I've got a new Integer array there
of two elements IntegerArray[0].
We are using aInteger, which of course,
we have defined previously to be Integer object.
There's aInteger on line 32.
But equally, we can for the second element,
we're just using b.
B, of course, was an int.
And you can see automatically
that Java is autoboxing it there
because we're printing out the values
and because we're using an Integer wrapper array here,
Java's doing the autoboxing for us.
All right, so so far so good.
So, moving on, I want to add some code now.
(keyboard clicking)
And you can see that
neither of these two statements compile.
If you have a look, hover over it.
Obviously, it's a type there.
Looking for a long array and found it.
Int array and that's the same.
And then the second example,
which are looking for an Integer array
and found an int array.
(mouse clicking)
So, now autoboxing happens
on the entire int array this scenario.
Comment that out, so it still compiles.
All right, let's add some more code.
(keyboard clicking)
All right, so what if you've got errors here?
Well basically, the problem is that
the java.util.Arrays static methods that compare arrays,
will not accept two arrays of different types
even if they're types that are normally widened
or autoboxed on an individual level.
I'll keep that in mind.
(keyboard clicking)
I'll comment that out and I'm gonna add some more code.
Now, this code is perfectly acceptable
unlike the previous example, which didn't compile.
Now, the reason is because an Integer is a number.
In other words, it extends a number class
and we've got another number array here on line 57.
So, in this case up here on the lines 51 through 53,
we've tried to pass an int array.
That's where we're getting an error,
but again here, myNumberArray has been defined
as a number and the integerArray,
which was of type Integer.
An Integer is a number.
In other words, it extends the number class.
Okay, I'll run this code just to confirm.
And there's the app put down at the bottom.
Let's try another line of output here.
(keyboard clicking)
So, why doesn't this compile?
This is using the compare method of the array's class.
Well, the answer to this is that
when comparing different typed arrays,
they need to implement the Comparable interface
and be cast to a Comparable array
and the compareTo method must compare
a super class shared by both.
So specifically, the area here
is that java.lang.Number doesn't implement comparable.
So, I'll comment that out.
(keyboard clicking)
All right, so let's end the video here.
We've still got a lot more to look at.
We'll come back in the next video
and turn our attention to the list.copyOf
and list.of methods.
See you in the next video.